F - CHASSIS AND STRUCTURAL
F.1 DEFINITIONS
F.1.1 Chassis
The fabricated structural assembly that supports all functional vehicle systems.
This assembly may be a single fabricated structure, multiple fabricated structures or a
combination of composite and welded structures.
F.1.2 Frame Member
A minimum representative single piece of uncut, continuous tubing.
F.1.3 Monocoque
A type of Chassis where loads are supported by the external panels
F.1.4 Main Hoop
A roll bar located alongside or immediately aft of the driver’s torso.
F.1.5 Front Hoop
A roll bar located above the driver’s legs, in proximity to the steering wheel.
F.1.6 Roll Hoop(s)
Referring to both the Front Hoop AND the Main Hoop
F.1.7 Roll Hoop Bracing Supports
The structure from the lower end of the Roll Hoop Bracing back to the Roll Hoop(s).
F.1.8 Front Bulkhead
A planar structure that provides protection for the driver’s feet.
F.1.9 Impact Attenuator
A deformable, energy absorbing device located forward of the Front Bulkhead.
F.1.10 Primary Structure
The combination of the following components:
• Front Bulkhead and Front Bulkhead Support
• Front Hoop, Main Hoop, Roll Hoop Braces and Supports
• Side Impact Structure
• (EV Only) Tractive System Protection and Rear Impact Protection
• Any Frame Members, guides, or supports that transfer load from the Driver Restraint
System
F.1.11 Primary Structure Envelope
A volume enclosed by multiple tangent planes, each of which follows the exact outline of the
Primary Structure Frame Members
F.1.12 Major Structure
The portion of the Chassis that lies inside the Primary Structure Envelope, excluding the Main
Hoop Bracing and the portion of the Main Hoop above a horizontal plane located at the top of
the Upper Side Impact Member or top of the Side Impact Zone.
Formula SAE® Rules 2024 © 2023 SAE International Page 23 of 140
Version 1.0 1 Sep 2023
F.1.13 Rollover Protection Envelope
The Primary Structure plus a plane from the top of the Main Hoop to the top of the Front
Hoop, plus a plane from the top of the Main Hoop to the rearmost Triangulated structural
tube, or monocoque equivalent.
* If there are no Triangulated Structural members aft of the Main Hoop, the Rollover
Protection Envelope ends at the rear plane of the Main Hoop
F.1.14 Tire Surface Envelope
The volume enclosed by tangent lines between the Main Hoop and the outside edge of each
of the four tires.
F.1.15 Component Envelope
The area that is inside a plane from the top of the Main Hoop to the top of the Front
Bulkhead, plus a plane from the top of the Main Hoop to the rearmost Triangulated structural
tube, or monocoque equivalent. * see note in step F.1.13 above
F.1.16 Buckling Modulus (EI)
Equal to E*I, where E = modulus of Elasticity, and I = area moment of inertia about the
weakest axis.
F.1.17 Triangulation
An arrangement of Frame Members where all members and segments of members between
bends or nodes with Structural tubes form a structure composed entirely of triangles.
a. This is generally required between an upper member and a lower member, both of
which may have multiple segments requiring a diagonal to form multiple triangles.
b. This is also what is meant by “properly triangulated”.
Formula SAE® Rules 2024 © 2023 SAE International Page 24 of 140
Version 1.0 1 Sep 2023
F.1.18 Nonflammable Material
Metal or a Non Metallic material which meets UL94-V0, FAR25 or approved equivalent
EV - ELECTRIC VEHICLES
EV.1 DEFINITIONS
EV.1.1 Tractive System – TS
Every part electrically connected to the Motor(s) and/or Accumulator(s)
EV.1.2 Grounded Low Voltage - GLV
Every electrical part that is not part of the Tractive System
EV.1.3 Accumulator
All the battery cells or super capacitors that store the electrical energy to be used by the
Tractive System