IC - INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE VEHICLES
IC.1 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
IC.1.1 Engine Limitations
IC.1.1.1 The engine(s) used to power the vehicle must:
a. Be a piston engine(s) using a four stroke primary heat cycle
b. Have a total combined displacement less than or equal to 710 cc per cycle.
IC.1.1.2 Hybrid powertrains, such as those using electric motors running off stored energy, are
prohibited.
IC.1.1.3 All waste/rejected heat from the primary heat cycle may be used. The method of conversion is
not limited to the four stroke cycle.
IC.1.1.4 The engine may be modified within the restrictions of the rules.
IC.1.2 Air Intake and Fuel System Location
All parts of the engine air system and fuel control, delivery and storage systems (including the
throttle or carburetor, and the complete air intake system, including the air cleaner and any
air boxes) must lie inside the Tire Surface Envelope F.1.14
IC.2 AIR INTAKE SYSTEM
IC.2.1 General
IC.2.2 Intake System Location
IC.2.2.1 The Intake System must meet IC.1.2
IC.2.2.2 Any portion of the air intake system that is less than 350 mm above the ground must be
shielded from side or rear impacts by structure built per F.6.4 / F.7.5 as applicable.
IC.2.3 Intake System Mounting
IC.2.3.1 The intake manifold must be securely attached to the engine block or cylinder head with
brackets and mechanical fasteners.
• Hose clamps, plastic ties, or safety wires do not meet this requirement.
• The use of rubber bushings or hose is acceptable for creating and sealing air passages,
but is not a structural attachment.
IC.2.3.2 Threaded fasteners used to secure and/or seal the intake manifold must have a Positive
Locking Mechanism, see T.8.3.
IC.2.3.3 Intake systems with significant mass or cantilever from the cylinder head must be supported
to prevent stress to the intake system.
a. Supports to the engine must be rigid.
b. Supports to the Chassis must incorporate some isolation to allow for engine movement
and chassis flex.
IC.2.4 Intake System Restrictor
IC.2.4.1 All airflow to the engine(s) must pass through a single circular restrictor placed in the intake
system.
Formula SAE® Rules 2024 © 2023 SAE International Page 78 of 140
Version 1.0 1 Sep 2023
IC.2.4.2 The only allowed sequence of components are the following:
a. For naturally aspirated engines, the sequence must be: throttle body, restrictor, and
engine.
b. For turbocharged or supercharged engines, the sequence must be: restrictor,
compressor, throttle body, engine.
Pop-Off Valve (optional)
Throttle Engine
Body
Restrictor Compressor
Heat
Exchanger
Recirculation Valve (optional) (optional)
IC.2.4.3 The maximum restrictor diameters at any time during the competition are:
a. Gasoline fueled vehicles 20.0 mm
b. E85 fueled vehicles 19.0 mm
IC.2.4.4 The restrictor must be located to facilitate measurement during Technical Inspection
IC.2.4.5 The circular restricting cross section must NOT be movable or flexible in any way
IC.2.4.6 The restrictor must not be part of the movable portion of a barrel throttle body.
IC.2.5 Turbochargers & Superchargers
IC.2.5.1 The intake air may be cooled with an intercooler (a charge air cooler).
a. It must be located downstream of the throttle body
b. Only ambient air may be used to remove heat from the intercooler system
c. Air to air and water to air intercoolers are permitted
d. The coolant of a water to air intercooler system must meet T.5.4.1
IC.2.5.2 If pop-off valves, recirculation valves, or heat exchangers (intercoolers) are used, they must be
positioned in the intake system as shown in IC.2.4.2.b
IC.2.5.3 Plenums must not be located anywhere upstream of the throttle body
For the purpose of definition, a plenum is any tank or volume that is a significant enlargement
of the normal intake runner system. Teams may submit their designs via a Rules Question for
review prior to competition if the legality of their proposed system is in doubt.
IC.2.5.4 The maximum allowable area of the inner diameter of the intake runner system between the
restrictor and throttle body is 2825 mm2
IC.2.6 Connections to Intake
Any crankcase or engine lubrication vent lines routed to the intake system must be connected
upstream of the intake system restrictor.
Formula SAE® Rules 2024 © 2023 SAE International Page 79 of 140
Version 1.0 1 Sep 2023
IC.3 THROTTLE
IC.3.1 General
IC.3.1.1 The vehicle must have a carburetor or throttle body.
a. The carburetor or throttle body may be of any size or design.
b. Boosted applications must not use carburetors.
IC.3.2 Throttle Actuation Method
The throttle may be actuated:
a. Mechanically by a cable or rod system IC.3.3
b. By Electronic Throttle Control IC.4
IC.3.3 Throttle Actuation – Mechanical
IC.3.3.1 The throttle cable or rod must:
a. Have smooth operation
b. Have no possibility of binding or sticking
c. Be minimum 50 mm from any exhaust system component and out of the exhaust stream
d. Be protected from being bent or kinked by the driver’s foot when it is operated by the
driver or when the driver enters or exits the vehicle
IC.3.3.2 The throttle actuation system must use two or more return springs located at the throttle
body.
Throttle Position Sensors (TPS) are NOT acceptable as return springs
IC.3.3.3 Failure of any component of the throttle system must not prevent the throttle returning to
the closed position.
IC.4 ELECTRONIC THROTTLE CONTROL
This section IC.4 applies only when Electronic Throttle Control is used
An Electronic Throttle Control (ETC) system may be used. This is a device or system which
may change the engine throttle setting based on various inputs.
IC.4.1 General Design
IC.4.1.1 The electronic throttle must automatically close (return to idle) when power is removed.
IC.4.1.2 The electronic throttle must use minimum two sources of energy capable of returning the
throttle to the idle position.
a. One of the sources may be the device (such as a DC motor) that normally actuates the
throttle
b. The other device(s) must be a throttle return spring that can return the throttle to the
idle position if loss of actuator power occurs.
c. Springs in the TPS are not acceptable throttle return springs
IC.4.1.3 The ETC system may blip the throttle during downshifts when proven that unintended
acceleration can be avoided. The functional analysis must be documented in the ETC Systems
Form
Formula SAE® Rules 2024 © 2023 SAE International Page 80 of 140
Version 1.0 1 Sep 2023
IC.4.2 Commercial ETC System
IC.4.2.1 An ETC system that is commercially available, but does not comply with the regulations, may
be used, if approved prior to the event.
IC.4.2.2 To obtain approval, submit a Rules Question which includes:
• Which ETC system the team is seeking approval to use.
• The specific ETC rule(s) that the commercial system deviates from.
• Sufficient technical details of these deviations to determine the acceptability of the
commercial system.
IC.4.3 Documentation
IC.4.3.1 The ETC Notice of Intent:
• Must be submitted to inform the organizer of the intent to run ETC
• May be used to screen which teams are allowed to use ETC
IC.4.3.2 The ETC Systems Form must be submitted in order to use ETC
IC.4.3.3 Submit the ETC Notice of Intent and ETC Systems Form as given in section DR - Document
Requirements
IC.4.3.4 Late or non submission will prevent use of ETC, see DR.3.4.1
IC.4.4 Throttle Position Sensor - TPS
IC.4.4.1 The TPS must measure the position of the throttle or the throttle actuator.
Throttle position is defined as percent of travel from fully closed to wide open where 0% is
fully closed and 100% is fully open.
IC.4.4.2 Two or more separate sensors must be used as TPSs. The TPSs may share the same supply and
reference lines only if effects of supply and/or reference line voltage offsets can be detected.
IC.4.4.3 Implausibility is defined as a deviation of more than 10% throttle position between the
sensors or other failure as defined in Section IC.4. Use of values larger than 10% may be
considered on a case by case basis and require justification in the ETC Systems Form
IC.4.4.4 If an Implausibility occurs between the values of the two TPSs and persists for more than 100
msec, the power to the electronic throttle must be immediately shut down.
IC.4.4.5 If three sensors are used, then in the case of a TPS failure, any two TPSs that agree within 10%
throttle position may be used to define the throttle position target and the 3rd TPS may be
ignored.
IC.4.4.6 Each TPS must be able to be checked during Technical Inspection by having one of:
a. A separate detachable connector(s) for any TPS signal(s) to the main ECU without
affecting any other connections
b. An inline switchable breakout box available that allows disconnection of each TPS
signal(s) to the main ECU without affecting any other connections
IC.4.4.7 The TPS signals must be sent directly to the throttle controller using an analogue signal or via
a digital data transmission bus such as CAN or FlexRay. Any failure of the TPSs or TPS wiring
must be detectable by the controller and must be treated like Implausibility.
IC.4.4.8 When an analogue signal is used, the TPSs will be considered to have failed when they achieve
an open circuit or short circuit condition which generates a signal outside of the normal
operating range, for example <0.5 V or >4.5 V.
Formula SAE® Rules 2024 © 2023 SAE International Page 81 of 140
Version 1.0 1 Sep 2023
The circuitry used to evaluate the sensor must use pull down or pull up resistors to ensure
that open circuit signals result in a failure being detected.
IC.4.4.9 When any kind of digital data transmission is used to transmit the TPS signal,
a. The ETC Systems Form must contain a detailed description of all the potential failure
modes that can occur, the strategy that is used to detect these failures and the tests that
have been conducted to prove that the detection strategy works.
b. The failures to be considered must include but are not limited to the failure of the TPS,
TPS signals being out of range, corruption of the message and loss of messages and the
associated time outs.
IC.4.5 Accelerator Pedal Position Sensor - APPS
Refer to T.4.2 for specific requirements of the APPS
IC.4.6 Brake System Encoder - BSE
Refer to T.4.3 for specific requirements of the BSE
IC.4.7 Throttle Plausibility Checks
IC.4.7.1 Brakes and Throttle Position
a. The power to the electronic throttle must be shut down if the mechanical brakes are
actuated and the TPS signals that the throttle is open by more than a permitted amount
for more than one second.
b. An interval of one second is allowed for the throttle to close (return to idle). Failure to
achieve this in the required interval must result in immediate shut down of fuel flow and
the ignition system.
c. The permitted relationship between BSE and TPS may be defined by the team using a
table. This functionality must be demonstrated at Technical Inspection.
IC.4.7.2 Throttle Position vs Target
a. The power to the electronic throttle must be immediately shut down, if throttle position
differs by more than 10% from the expected target TPS position for more than one
second.
b. An interval of one second is allowed for the difference to reduce to less than 10%, failure
to achieve this in the required interval must result in immediate shut down of fuel flow
and the ignition system.
c. An error in TPS position and the resultant system shutdown must be demonstrated at
Technical Inspection.
Teams must have a method to demonstrate that the actions in IC.4.7.2.b above are met.
System states displayed using calibration software must be accompanied by a detailed
explanation of the control system.
IC.4.7.3 The electronic throttle and fuel injector/ignition system shutdown must stay active until the
TPS signals indicate the throttle is at or below the unpowered default position for one second
or longer.
IC.4.8 Brake System Plausibility Device - BSPD
IC.4.8.1 A standalone nonprogrammable circuit must be used to monitor the electronic throttle
control.
The BSPD must be provided in addition to the Throttle Plausibility Checks IC.4.7
Formula SAE® Rules 2024 © 2023 SAE International Page 82 of 140
Version 1.0 1 Sep 2023
IC.4.8.2 Signals from any sensors must be sent directly to the BSPD. Outputs from other modules may
not be used in place of the raw sensor signals.
IC.4.8.3 The BSPD must monitor for the following conditions:
a. Both of the following for more than one second:
• Demand for Hard Braking IC.4.6
• Throttle more than 10% open IC.4.4
b. Loss of signal from the braking sensor(s) for more than 100 msec
c. Loss of signal from the throttle sensor(s) for more than 100 msec
d. Removal of power from the BSPD circuit
IC.4.8.4 When any of the above conditions exist, the BSPD must Open the Shutdown Circuit IC.9.2.2
IC.4.8.5 The BSPD must only be reset by cycling the Primary Master Switch IC.9.3 OFF and ON
IC.4.8.6 The BSPD must not reset when the Cockpit Main Switch IC.9.4 is turned OFF
IC.4.8.7 The BSPD signals and function must be able to be checked during Technical Inspection by
having one of:
a. A separate set of detachable connectors for any signals from the braking sensor(s),
throttle sensor(s) and removal of power to only the BSPD device.
b. An inline switchable breakout box available that allows disconnection of the brake
sensor(s), throttle sensor(s) individually and power to only the BSPD device.
IC.5 FUEL AND FUEL SYSTEM
IC.5.1 Fuel
IC.5.1.1 Vehicles must be operated with the fuels provided by the organizer at the competition.
IC.5.1.2 Fuels provided are expected to be Gasoline and E85. Consult the individual competition
websites for fuel specifics and other information.
IC.5.1.3 No agents other than the provided fuel and air may go into the combustion chamber.
IC.5.2 Fuel System
IC.5.2.1 The Fuel System must meet the following design criteria:
a. The Fuel Tank is capable of being filled to capacity without manipulating the tank or the
vehicle in any manner.
b. During refueling on a level surface, the formation of air cavities or other effects that
cause the fuel level observed at the sight tube to drop after movement or operation of
the vehicle (other than due to consumption) are prevented.
c. Spillage during refueling cannot contact the driver position, exhaust system, hot engine
parts, or the ignition system.
IC.5.2.2 The Fuel System location must meet IC.1.2 and F.9
IC.5.2.3 A Firewall must separate the Fuel Tank from the driver, per T.1.8
IC.5.3 Fuel Tank
The part(s) of the fuel containment device that is in contact with the fuel.
Formula SAE® Rules 2024 © 2023 SAE International Page 83 of 140
Version 1.0 1 Sep 2023
IC.5.3.1 Fuel Tanks made of a rigid material must:
a. Be securely attached to the vehicle structure. The mounting method must not allow
chassis flex to load the Fuel Tank.
b. Not be used to carry any structural loads; from Roll Hoops, suspension, engine or
gearbox mounts
IC.5.3.2 Any Fuel Tank that is made from a flexible material, for example a bladder fuel cell or a bag
tank:
a. Must be enclosed inside a rigid fuel tank container which is securely attached to the
vehicle structure.
b. The Fuel Tank container may be load carrying
IC.5.3.3 Any size Fuel Tank may be used.
IC.5.3.4 The Fuel Tank, by design, must not have a variable capacity.
IC.5.3.5 The Fuel System must have a provision for emptying the Fuel Tank if required.
IC.5.4 Fuel Filler Neck & Sight Tube
IC.5.4.1 All Fuel Tanks must have a Fuel Filler Neck which must be:
a. Minimum 35 mm inner diameter at any point between the Fuel Tank and the Fuel Filler
cap
IC.5.4.2 The portion of the Fuel Filler Neck nearest to the Fuel Filler cap must be:
a. Minimum 125 mm vertical height above the top level of the Fuel Tank
b. Angled no more than 30° from the vertical
IC.5.4.3 The Fuel Filler Neck must be accompanied by a clear fuel resistant sight tube for reading the
fuel level which must be:
a. Visible vertical height: 125 mm minimum
b. Inside diameter: 6 mm minimum
c. Above the top surface of the Fuel Tank
IC.5.4.4 A clear Fuel Filler Neck tube may be used as a sight tube, subject to approval by a Rules
Question or technical inspectors at the event.
Vertical Angled
Filler Neck Filler Neck
Sight Tube
ø35 mm min clear
ø35 mm min clear
IC.5.4.5 Fuel Level Line - A permanent, non movable fuel level line must be located between 12 mm
and 25 mm below the top of the visible portion of the sight tube.
Formula SAE® Rules 2024 © 2023 SAE International Page 84 of 140
Version 1.0 1 Sep 2023
nim
mm
521
nim
mm
521
This line will be used as the fill line for the Tilt Test, and before and after Endurance to measure
the amount of fuel used during the Endurance Event.
IC.5.4.6 The sight tube and fuel level line must be clearly visible to two individuals (one to fill the tank,
the other to visually verify fill) without the need of assistance (artificial lighting, magnifiers,
etc) or the need to remove any parts (body panels, etc).
IC.5.4.7 The individual filling the tank must have complete direct access to the filler neck opening with
a standard two gallon gas can assembly.
The gas can is minimum 25 cm wide x 25 cm deep x 35 cm high, with a 25 cm spout at the top
IC.5.4.8 The filler neck must have a fuel cap that can withstand severe vibrations or high pressures
such as could occur during a vehicle rollover event
IC.5.5 Fuel Tank Filling
IC.5.5.1 Fueling / Refueling policies and procedures are at the discretion of the fuel crew and officials.
IC.5.5.2 The tank will be filled to the fill line, or if a filling system is used, to the automatic stop point.
IC.5.5.3 If, for any reason, the fuel level changes after the team have moved the vehicle, then no
additional fuel will be added, unless fueling after Endurance, see D.13.2.5
IC.5.6 Venting Systems
IC.5.6.1 Venting systems for the fuel tank and fuel delivery system must not allow fuel to spill during
hard cornering or acceleration.
IC.5.6.2 All fuel vent lines must have a check valve to prevent fuel leakage when the tank is inverted.
IC.5.6.3 All fuel vent lines must exit outside the bodywork.
IC.5.7 Fuel Lines
IC.5.7.1 Fuel lines must be securely attached to the vehicle and/or engine.
IC.5.7.2 All fuel lines must be shielded from possible rotating equipment failure or collision damage.
IC.5.7.3 Plastic fuel lines between the fuel tank and the engine (supply and return) are prohibited.
IC.5.7.4 Any rubber fuel line or hose used must meet the following:
a. The components over which the hose is clamped must have annular bulb or barbed
fittings to retain the hose
b. Clamps specifically designed for fuel lines must be used.
These clamps have three features: a full 360° wrap, a nut and bolt system for tightening,
and rolled edges to prevent the clamp cutting into the hose
IC.5.7.5 Worm gear type hose clamps must not be used on any fuel line.
IC.6 FUEL INJECTION
IC.6.1 Low Pressure Injection (LPI)
Low Pressure fuel injection systems are those functioning at a pressure below 10 Bar. Most
Port Fuel Injected (PFI) fuel systems are low pressure.
IC.6.1.1 Any Low Pressure flexible fuel lines must be one of:
• Metal braided hose with threaded fittings (crimped on or reusable)
• Reinforced rubber hose with some form of abrasion resistant protection
IC.6.1.2 Fuel rail and mounting requirements:
Formula SAE® Rules 2024 © 2023 SAE International Page 85 of 140
Version 1.0 1 Sep 2023
a. Unmodified OEM Fuel Rails are acceptable, regardless of material.
b. Non OEM fuel rails made from plastic, carbon fiber or rapid prototyping flammable
materials are prohibited.
c. The fuel rail must be securely attached to the manifold, engine block or cylinder head
with brackets and mechanical fasteners.
Hose clamps, plastic ties, or safety wires do not meet this requirement.
d. Threaded fasteners used to secure the fuel rail are Critical Fasteners, see T.8.2
IC.6.2 High Pressure Injection (HPI) / Direct Injection (DI)
IC.6.2.1 Definitions
a. High Pressure fuel systems - those functioning at 10 Bar pressure or above
b. Direct Injection fuel systems - where the injection occurs directly into the combustion
system
Direct Injection systems often utilize a low pressure electric fuel pump and high pressure
mechanical “boost” pump driven off the engine.
c. High Pressure Fuel Lines - those between the boost pump and injectors
d. Low Pressure Fuel Lines - from the electric supply pump to the boost pump
IC.6.2.2 All High Pressure Fuel Lines must:
a. Be stainless steel rigid line or Aeroquip FC807 smooth bore PTFE hose with stainless steel
reinforcement and visible Nomex tracer yarn. Equivalent products may be used with
prior approval.
b. Not incorporate elastomeric seals
c. Be rigidly connected every 100 mm by mechanical fasteners to structural engine
components such as cylinder heads or block
IC.6.2.3 Any Low Pressure flexible Fuel Lines must be one of:
• Metal braided hose with threaded fittings (crimped on or reusable)
• Reinforced rubber hose with some form of abrasion resistant protection
IC.6.2.4 Fuel rail mounting requirements:
a. The fuel rail must be securely attached to the engine block or cylinder head with brackets
and mechanical fasteners. Hose clamps, plastic ties, or safety wires do not meet this
requirement.
b. The fastening method must be sufficient to hold the fuel rail in place with the maximum
regulated pressure acting on the injector internals and neglecting any assistance from
cylinder pressure acting on the injector tip.
c. Threaded fasteners used to secure the fuel rail are Critical Fasteners, see T.8.2
IC.6.2.5 High Pressure Fuel Pump – must be rigidly mounted to structural engine components such as
the cylinder head or engine block.
IC.6.2.6 Pressure Regulator – must be fitted between the High Pressure and Low Pressure sides of the
fuel system in parallel with the DI boost pump. The external regulator must be used even if
the DI boost pump comes equipped with an internal regulator.
Formula SAE® Rules 2024 © 2023 SAE International Page 86 of 140
Version 1.0 1 Sep 2023
IC.7 EXHAUST AND NOISE CONTROL
IC.7.1 Exhaust Protection
IC.7.1.1 The exhaust system must be separated from any of the following components by means given
in T.1.6.3:
a. Flammable materials, including the fuel and fuel system, the oil and oil system
b. Thermally sensitive components, including brake lines, composite materials, and
batteries
IC.7.2 Exhaust Outlet
IC.7.2.1 The exhaust must be routed to prevent the driver from fumes at any speed considering the
draft of the vehicle
IC.7.2.2 The Exhaust Outlet(s) must be:
a. No more than 45 cm aft of the centerline of the rear axle
b. No more than 60 cm above the ground.
IC.7.2.3 Any exhaust components (headers, mufflers, etc.) that protrude from the side of the body in
front of the Main Hoop must be shielded to prevent contact by persons approaching the
vehicle or a driver exiting the vehicle
IC.7.2.4 Fibrous/absorbent material, (such as header wrap), must not be used on the outside of an
exhaust manifold or exhaust system.
IC.7.3 Variable Exhaust
IC.7.3.1 Adjustable tuning or throttling devices are permitted.
IC.7.3.2 Manually adjustable tuning devices must require tools to change
IC.7.3.3 Refer to IN.10.2 for additional requirements during the Noise Test
IC.7.4 Connections to Exhaust
Crankcase breathers that pass through the oil catch tank(s) to exhaust systems, or vacuum
devices that connect directly to the exhaust system, are prohibited.
IC.7.5 Noise Level and Testing
IC.7.5.1 The vehicle must stay below the permitted sound level at all times IN.10.5
IC.7.5.2 Sound level will be verified during Technical Inspection, refer to IN.10
IC.8 ELECTRICAL
IC.8.1 Starter
Each vehicle must start the engine using an onboard starter at all times
IC.8.2 Batteries
Refer to T.9.2 for specific requirements of Low Voltage batteries
IC.8.3 Voltage Limit
IC.8.3.1 Voltage between any two electrical connections must be Low Voltage T.9.1.2
IC.8.3.2 This voltage limit does not apply to the following systems:
• High Voltage systems for ignition
• High Voltage systems for injectors
Formula SAE® Rules 2024 © 2023 SAE International Page 87 of 140
Version 1.0 1 Sep 2023
• Voltages internal to OEM charging systems designed for <60 V DC output.
IC.9 SHUTDOWN SYSTEM
IC.9.1 Shutdown Circuit
IC.9.1.1 The Shutdown Circuit consists of the following components:
a. Primary Master Switch IC.9.3
b. Cockpit Main Switch IC.9.4
c. (ETC Only) Brake System Plausibility Device (BSPD) IC.4.8
d. Brake Overtravel Switch (BOTS) T.3.3
e. Inertia Switch (if used) T.9.4
IC.9.1.2 The team must be able to demonstrate all features and functions of the Shutdown Circuit and
components at Technical Inspection
IC.9.1.3 The international electrical symbol (a red spark on a white edged blue triangle) must be near
OFF
both the Primary Master Switch and Cockpit Main Switch.
IC.9.2 Shutdown Circuit Operation
IC.9.2.1 The Shutdown Circuit must Open upon operation of, or detection from any of the components
listed in IC.9.1.1
IC.9.2.2 When the Shutdown Circuit Opens, it must:
a. Stop the engine
b. Disconnect power to the:
• Fuel Pump(s)
• Ignition
• (ETC only) Electronic Throttle IC.4.1.1
IC.9.3 Primary Master Switch
IC.9.3.1 Configuration and Location - The Primary Master Switch must meet T.9.3
IC.9.3.2 Function - the Primary Master Switch must:
a. Disconnect power to ALL electrical circuits, including the battery, alternator, lights, fuel
pump(s), ignition and electrical controls.
All battery current must flow through this switch
b. Be direct acting, not act through a relay or logic.
IC.9.4 Cockpit Main Switch
IC.9.4.1 Configuration - The Cockpit Main Switch must:
a. Be a push-pull or push-rotate emergency switch (pushing the button is the OFF position)
b. Have a diameter of 24 mm minimum
IC.9.4.2 Location – The Cockpit Main Switch must be:
a. In easy reach of the driver when in a normal driving position wearing Harness
b. Adjacent to the Steering Wheel
c. Unobstructed by the Steering Wheel or any other part of the vehicle
IC.9.4.3 Function - the Cockpit Main Switch may act through a relay
Formula SAE® Rules 2024 © 2023 SAE International Page 88 of 140
Version 1.0 1 Sep 2023
EV - ELECTRIC VEHICLES 