S - STATIC EVENTS
S.1 GENERAL STATIC
Presentation 75 points
Cost 100 points
Design 150 points
Total 325 points
S.2 PRESENTATION EVENT
S.2.1 Presentation Event Objective
The Presentation Event evaluates the team’s ability to develop and deliver a comprehensive
business, logistical, production, or technical case that will convince outside interests to invest
in the team’s concept.
S.2.2 Presentation Concept
S.2.2.1 The concept for the Presentation Event will be provided on the FSAE Online website.
S.2.2.2 The concept for the Presentation Event may change for each competition
S.2.2.3 The team presentation must meet the concept
S.2.2.4 The team presentation must relate specifically to the vehicle as entered in the competition
S.2.2.5 Teams should assume that the judges represent different areas, including engineering,
production, marketing and finance, and may not all be engineers.
S.2.2.6 The presentation may be given in different settings, such as a conference room, a group
meeting, virtually, or in conjunction with other Static Events.
Specific details will be included in the Presentation Concept or communicated separately.
S.2.3 Presentation Schedule
Teams that fail to make their presentation during their assigned time period will receive zero
points for the Presentation Event.
S.2.4 Presentation Submissions
S.2.4.1 The Presentation Concept may require information to be submitted prior to the event.
Specific details will be included in the Presentation Concept.
S.2.4.2 Submissions may be graded as part of the Presentation Event score.
S.2.4.3 Pre event submissions will be subject to penalties imposed as given in section DR - Document
Requirements.
S.2.5 Presentation Format
S.2.5.1 One or more team members will give the presentation to the judges.
S.2.5.2 All team members who will give any part of the presentation, or who will respond to judges’
questions must be:
• In the presentation area when the presentation starts
• Introduced and identified to the judges.
S.2.5.3 Presentations will be time limited. The judges will stop any presentation exceeding the time
limit.
Formula SAE® Rules 2024 © 2023 SAE International Page 118 of 140
Version 1.0 1 Sep 2023
S.2.5.4 The presentation itself will not be interrupted by questions. Immediately following the
presentation there may be a question and answer session.
S.2.5.5 Only judges may ask questions. Only team members who meet S.2.5.2 may answer questions.
S.2.6 Presentation Equipment
Teams planning to use data projectors, visual display devices (tablets, computers, etc.), or
other communication means as part of their presentation must bring, or arrange for, their
own equipment.
S.2.7 Evaluation Criteria
S.2.7.1 Presentations will be evaluated on content, organization, visual aids, delivery and the team’s
response to the judges’ questions.
S.2.7.2 The actual quality of the prototype itself will not be considered as part of the presentation
judging
S.2.7.3 Presentation Judging Score Sheet – available at the FSAE Online website.
S.2.8 Judging Sequence
Presentation judging may be conducted in one or more phases.
S.2.9 Presentation Event Scoring
S.2.9.1 The Presentation raw score is based on the average of the scores of each judge.
S.2.9.2 Presentation Event scores may range from 0 to 75 points, using a method at the discretion of
the judges
S.2.9.3 Presentation Event scoring may include normalizing the scores of different judging teams and
scaling the overall results.
S.3 COST AND MANUFACTURING EVENT
S.3.1 Cost Event Objective
The Cost and Manufacturing Event evaluates the ability of the team to consider budget and
incorporate production considerations for production and efficiency.
Making tradeoff decisions between content and cost based on the performance of each part
and assembly and accounting for each part and process to meet a budget is part of Project
Management.
S.3.2 Cost Event Supplement
a. Additional specific information on the Cost and Manufacturing Event, including
explanation and requirements, is provided in the Formula SAE Cost Event Supplement
document.
b. Use the Formula SAE Cost Event Supplement to properly complete the requirements of
the Cost and Manufacturing Event.
c. The Formula SAE Cost Event Supplement is available on the FSAE Online website
S.3.3 Cost Event Areas
S.3.3.1 Cost Report
Preparation and submission of a report (the “Cost Report”)
S.3.3.2 Event Day Discussion
Discussion at the Competition with the Cost Judges around the team’s vehicle.
Formula SAE® Rules 2024 © 2023 SAE International Page 119 of 140
Version 1.0 1 Sep 2023
S.3.3.3 Cost Scenario
Teams will respond to a challenge related to cost or manufacturing of the vehicle.
S.3.4 Cost Report
S.3.4.1 The Cost Report must:
a. List and cost every part on the vehicle using the standardized Cost Tables.
b. Base the cost on the actual manufacturing technique used on the prototype.
Cast parts on the prototype must be cost as cast, and fabricated parts as fabricated, etc.
c. Include Tooling Cost (welding jigs, molds, patterns and dies) for processes requiring it.
d. Exclude R & D and capital expenditures (plant, machinery, hand tools and power tools).
e. Include supporting documentation to allow officials to verify part costing
S.3.4.2 Generate and submit the Cost Report using the FSAE Online website, see DR - Document
Requirements
S.3.5 Bill of Materials - BOM
S.3.5.1 The BOM is a list for every vehicle part, showing the relationships between the items.
a. The overall vehicle is broken down into separate Systems
b. Systems are made up of Assemblies
c. Assemblies are made up of Parts
d. Parts consist of Materials, Processes and Fasteners
e. Tooling is associated with each Process that requires production tooling
S.3.6 Late Submission
Penalties for Late Submission of Cost Report will be imposed as given in section DR -
Document Requirements.
S.3.7 Cost Addendum
S.3.7.1 A supplement to the Cost Report that reflects any changes or corrections made after the
submission of the Cost Report may be submitted.
S.3.7.2 The Cost Addendum must be submitted during Onsite Registration at the Event.
S.3.7.3 The Cost Addendum must follow the format as given in section DR - Document Requirements
S.3.7.4 Addenda apply only to the competition at which they are submitted.
S.3.7.5 A separate Cost Addendum may be submitted for every competition a vehicle attends.
S.3.7.6 Changes to the Cost Report in the Cost Addendum will incur additional cost:
a. Added items will be cost at 125% of the table cost: + (1.25 x Cost)
b. Removed items will be credited 75% of the table cost: - (0.75 x Cost)
S.3.8 Cost Tables
S.3.8.1 All costs in the Cost Report must come from the standardized Cost Tables.
S.3.8.2 If a team wishes to use any Parts, Processes or Materials not included in the tables, an Add
Item Request must be submitted. See S.3.10
Formula SAE® Rules 2024 © 2023 SAE International Page 120 of 140
Version 1.0 1 Sep 2023
S.3.9 Make versus Buy
S.3.9.1 Every part may be classified as Made or Bought.
Refer to the Formula SAE Cost Event Supplement for additional information
S.3.9.2 If a team genuinely Makes a part listed on the table as a Bought part, they may alternatively
cost it as a Made part only if a place holder entry is listed in the tables enabling them to do so.
S.3.9.3 Any part which is normally purchased that is optionally shown as a Made part must have
supporting documentation submitted to prove team manufacture.
S.3.9.4 Teams costing Bought parts as Made parts will be penalized.
S.3.10 Add Item Request
S.3.10.1 An Add Item Request must be submitted on the FSAE Online Website to add items to the Cost
Tables for individual team requirements.
S.3.10.2 After review, the item may be added to the Cost Table with an appropriate cost. It will then
be available to all teams.
S.3.11 Public Cost Reports
S.3.11.1 The competition organizers may publish all or part of the submitted Cost Reports.
S.3.11.2 Cost Reports for a given competition season will not be published before the end of the
calendar year. Support materials, such as technical drawings, will not be released.
S.3.12 Cost Report Penalties Process
S.3.12.1 The following procedure will be used in determining penalties:
a. Penalty A will be calculated using procedure Penalty Method A - Fixed Point Deductions
b. Penalty B will be calculated using procedure Penalty Method B – Adjusted Cost
Additions
c. The higher of the two penalties will be applied against the Cost Event score
• Penalty A expressed in points will be deducted from the Cost Event score
• Penalty B expressed in dollars will be added to the Adjusted Cost of the vehicle
S.3.12.2 Any error that results in a team over reporting a cost in their Cost Report will not be further
penalized.
S.3.12.3 Any instance where a team’s score benefits by an intentional or unintentional error on the
part of the students will be corrected on a case by case basis.
S.3.12.4 Penalty Method A - Fixed Point Deductions
a. From the Bill of Material, the Cost Judges will determine if all Parts and Processes have
been included in the analysis.
b. In the case of any omission or error a penalty proportional to the BOM level of the error
will be imposed:
• Missing/inaccurate Material, Process, Fastener 1 point
• Missing/inaccurate Part 3 point
• Missing/inaccurate Assembly 5 point
c. Each of the penalties listed above supersedes the previous penalty.
Example - if a point deduction is given for a missing Assembly, the missing Parts are ignored.
Formula SAE® Rules 2024 © 2023 SAE International Page 121 of 140
Version 1.0 1 Sep 2023
d. Differences other than those listed above will be deducted at the discretion of the Cost
Judges.
S.3.12.5 Penalty Method B – Adjusted Cost Additions
a. The table cost for the missing or incomplete items will be calculated from the standard
Cost Tables.
b. The penalty will be a value equal to twice the difference between the team cost and the
correct cost for all items in error.
Penalty = 2 x (Table Cost – Team Reported Cost)
The table costs of all items in error are included in the calculation. A missing Assembly would
include the price of all Parts, Materials, Processes and Fasteners making up the Assembly.
S.3.13 Event Day and Discussion
S.3.13.1 The team must present their vehicle at the designated time
S.3.13.2 The vehicle must have the tires and wheels declared as Dry Tires per V.4.3.1 installed during
Cost Event judging
S.3.13.3 Teams may be required to bring a copy of the Cost Report and Cost Addendum to Cost Judging
S.3.13.4 The Cost Judges will:
a. Review whether the Cost Report accurately reflects the vehicle as presented
b. Review the manufacturing feasibility of the vehicle
c. Assess supporting documentation based on its quality, accuracy and thoroughness
d. Apply penalties for missing or incorrect information in the Cost Report compared to the
vehicle presented at inspection
S.3.14 Cost Audit
S.3.14.1 Teams may be selected for additional review to verify all processes and materials on their
vehicle are in the Cost Report
S.3.14.2 Adjustments from the Cost Audit will be included in the final scores
S.3.15 Cost Scenario
The Cost Scenario will be provided prior to the competition on the FSAE Online website
The Cost Scenario will include detailed information about the conduct, scope, and conditions
of the Cost Scenario
S.3.16 Cost Event Scoring
S.3.16.1 Cost Event scoring will be provided on the FSAE Online website or with the Cost Scenario
S.3.16.2 The Cost Event is worth 100 points
S.3.16.3 Cost Event Scores may be awarded in areas including, but not limited to:
• Price Score
• Discussion Score
• Scenario Score
S.3.16.4 Penalty points may be subtracted from the Cost Score, with no limit.
S.3.16.5 Cost Event scoring may include normalizing the scores of different judging teams and scaling
the results.
Formula SAE® Rules 2024 © 2023 SAE International Page 122 of 140
Version 1.0 1 Sep 2023
S.4 DESIGN EVENT
S.4.1 Design Event Objective
S.4.1.1 The Design Event evaluates the engineering effort that went into the vehicle and how the
engineering meets the intent of the market both in terms of vehicle performance and overall
value.
S.4.1.2 The team and vehicle that illustrate the best use of engineering to meet the design goals, a
cost effective high performance vehicle, and the best understanding of the design by the team
members will win the Design Event.
S.4.1.3 Components and systems that are incorporated into the design as finished items are not
evaluated as a student designed unit, but are assessed on the team’s selection and application
of that unit.
S.4.2 Design Documents
S.4.2.1 Teams must submit the Design Briefing, Design Spec Sheet and Vehicle Drawings
S.4.2.2 These Design Documents will be used for:
• Design Judge reviews prior to the Design Event
• Sorting teams into appropriate design groups based on the quality of their review.
S.4.2.3 Penalties for Late Submission of all or any one of the Design Documents will be imposed as
given in section DR - Document Requirements
S.4.2.4 Teams that submit one or more Design Documents which do not represent a serious effort to
comply with the requirements may be excluded from the Design Event or be awarded a lower
score.
S.4.3 Design Briefing
S.4.3.1 The Design Briefing must use the template from the FSAE Online website.
S.4.3.2 Refer to the Design Briefing template for:
a. Specific content requirements, areas and details
b. Maximum slides that may be used per topic
S.4.3.3 Submit the Design Briefing as given in section DR - Document Requirements
S.4.4 Vehicle Drawings
S.4.4.1 The Vehicle Drawings must meet the following:
a. Three view line drawings showing the vehicle, from the front, top, and side
b. Each drawing must appear on a separate page
c. May be manually or computer generated
S.4.4.2 Submit the Vehicle Drawings as given in section DR - Document Requirements
S.4.5 Design Spec Sheet
Use the format provided and submit the Design Spec Sheet as given in section DR - Document
Requirements
The Design Judges realize that final design refinements and vehicle development may cause
the submitted values to differ from those of the completed vehicle. For specifications that are
subject to tuning, an anticipated range of values may be appropriate.
Formula SAE® Rules 2024 © 2023 SAE International Page 123 of 140
Version 1.0 1 Sep 2023
S.4.6 Vehicle Condition
S.4.6.1 Inspection Approval IN.13.1.1 is not required prior to Design judging.
S.4.6.2 Vehicles must be presented for Design judging in finished condition, fully assembled, complete
and ready to run.
a. The judges will not evaluate any vehicle that is presented at the Design event in what
they consider to be an unfinished state.
b. Point penalties may be assessed for vehicles with obvious preparation issues
S.4.7 Support Material
S.4.7.1 Teams may bring to Design Judging any photographs, drawings, plans, charts, example
components or other materials that they believe are needed to support the presentation of
the vehicle and the discussion of their development process.
S.4.7.2 The available space in the Design Event judging area may be limited.
S.4.8 Judging Sequence
Design judging may be conducted in one or more phases.
Typical Design judging includes a first round review of all teams, then additional review of
selected teams.
S.4.9 Judging Criteria
S.4.9.1 The Design Judges will:
a. Evaluate the engineering effort based upon the team’s Design Documents, discussion
with the team, and an inspection of the vehicle
b. Inspect the vehicle to determine if the design concepts are adequate and appropriate for
the application (relative to the objectives stated in the rules).
c. Deduct points if the team cannot adequately explain the engineering and construction of
the vehicle
S.4.9.2 The Design Judges may assign a portion of the Design Event points to the Design Documents
S.4.9.3 Design Judging Score Sheets are available at the FSAE Online website.
S.4.10 Design Event Scoring
S.4.10.1 Scoring may range from 0 to 150 points, at the discretion of the Chief Design Judge
S.4.10.2 Penalty points may be subtracted from the Design score
S.4.10.3 Vehicles that are excluded from Design judging or refused judging will receive zero points for
Design, and may receive penalty points.
Formula SAE® Rules 2024 © 2023 SAE International Page 124 of 140
Version 1.0 1 Sep 2023
D - DYNAMIC EVENTS 